# Amazon RDS

- Relational Database fully managed by AWS.

- Multi-AZ를 활성화하면 동일한 region 내의 다른 AZ에 RDS Instance가 생성되어 failover 등을 처리할 수 있다.  
  Primary와 secondary 사이의 데이터 replication은 synchronous하게 이뤄진다.  
  Primary가 장애나면 자동으로 secondary가 선택되어 작업을 이어 수행한다.

  > Also updates DNS records, and takes about 60 ~ 120 seconds.

- 아래는 failover 메커니즘이 동작하는 상황들이다.

  - If patching maintenance is being performed on the primary database.
  - If the instance of the primary database has a host failure.
  - If the AZ of primary database fails.
  - If the primary database was rebooted with failover.
  - If the database instance class of the primary database is modified.

## Scaling storage

- Use `Storage Autoscaling`

- MySQL, PostgreSQL, MariaDB, Oracle, MS-SQL Server all use EBS volumes for both data and log storage.

  - General Purpose SSD Storage
    - Good option for broad range of use cases.
    - Provides single-digit millisecond latencies.
    - Cost effective
    - Minumim SSD for storage data: 20GiB, Maximum 64TiB(16TiB for SQL Server)
  - Provisioned IOPS(SSD) Storage
    - Good for workloads that operate at a very high I/O.
    - Minimum IOPS: 8000, Maximum IOPS: 80000(40000 for SQL Server)
    - Minimum storage for primary data: 100GiB, Maximum: 64TiB(16TiB for SQL Server)
  - Magnetic Storage
    - Provided to support backwards compatibility.
    - AWS recommends using General Purpose instead.

- Aurora uses shared cluster architecture, and does not use EBS.

  - The option to configure and select storage options does not exist.
  - Storage scales automatically as database grows.

- You can scale up immediately or schedule a maintenance window.
- When you scale out(create read replica instance), read replica then maintains a secure asynchronous link between  
  itself and the primary database.

---

## Automated services

- Many of the administrative tasks are taken care of by AWS.

  - Patching
  - Automated Backups

---
