# Amazon DynamoDB

- NoSQL Database, fully managed by aws, always single-digit latency.

- Charged for the total amount of throughput that you can configure for your tables  
  plus the total amount of storage space used by your data.

- 1 query - 1 index: If you want to query and match on two different columns, you need to create an  
  index that can do that properly. When you write your queries, you need to specify exactly which  
  index should be used for each query.

## Two types of Secondary indexes

- GSI(Global Secondary Index): Lets you query across the entire table to find any record that  
  matches a particular value.

- Local Secondary Index: Can only help find data within a single partition key.

---

## Reserving Read/Write Capacity

- You need to tell AWS how much capacity you want to reserve for the table.  
  You don't need to do this for disk space as DynamoDB will automatically allocate more space for your table as it grows. However, you do need to **reserve capacity for input and output for reads and writes.**  
  Amazon charges you based on the number of read capacity units and write capacity units that you allocate.  
  It's important to allocate enough for your workload, but don't allocate too much or DynamoDB could become  
  prohibitively expensive.

  - Default: 5 RCU(Read Capacity Units) and 5 WCU(Write Capacity Units)

---

## Provisioned Mode vs On-Demand Mode

### Provisioned Mode

- Allows you to provision set read and writes allowed against your database per second by your application.
- Measured in capacity units(RCU, WCU).  
  Depending on the transaction, each action will use 1 or more RCUs or WCUs.
- Used generally when you have a predicted and forecasted workload of traffic.

### On-Demand Mode

- Does not provision any RCUs or WCUs. Instead, it scales on demand.
- Not as cost-effective.
- Generally used if you do not know how much workload you are expected to experience.
- With more understanding of load, you can then change your mode across to Provisioned.

---

## Advantages, disadvantages of Amazon DynamoDB

### Advantages

- Fully managed by AWS. No need to worry about backups or redundancy.
- Tables are schemaless.
- Highly available. Your data is automatically replicated across 3 different AZs within the same region.
- Fast, no matter how much your table grows.

### Disadvantages

- Since your data is replicated across 3 different AZs within the same region, it can sometimes take some time,  
  which can then lead to eventual consistency.
- Queries are less flexible than SQL.
- Workflow limitations: Maximum record size is 400KB, and you can create maximum 20 GSIs, 5 Local Secondary Indexes  
  per table.
- Although DynamoDB can scale up as your needs grow, your performance is limited to the amount of read and write  
  throughput that you've provisioned for each table.

---

## Security

- By default, Encryption at Rest is enabled. You can also use KMS.

---
