# Amazon ElastiCache

## Amazon ElastiCache for Memcached

- A high performance, submillisecond latency Memcached-compatible, in-memory, key-value store service  
  that can either be used as a cache, in addition to a data store.

---

## Amazon ElastiCache for Redis

- An in-memory data store designed for high performance and again providing sub-millisecond latency  
  on a huge scale to real-time applications.

- It also offers an option to enable cluster mode.  
  When Redis cluster mode is disabled, each cluster will just jave a single shard.  
  However with cluster mode enabled, each cluster can have up to 90 shards.

---

## Components of ElastiCache

### Nodes

- A fixed sized chunk of secure, network-attached RAM.
- Node itself can be used in a variance of different instance types.

### Shards

- Redis shard(node group) is a group of up to 6 ElastiCache nodes.

### Redis Clusters

- A group that contains 1 to 90 Redis shards

- Data is then partition across all of the shards in that cluster.

### Memcached Clusters

- A collection of one or more cache nodes.

### Benefits of Clusters

- Once provisioning the cluster, AWS automatically detects and replaces failed nodes, which helps reduce the risk of  
  overloaded database, and therefore reducing the website and application load times.

---

## When to use persistent datastore instead of ElastiCache

- When data persistence is necessary.
- When working with primary data records.
- When we need write performance, rather than read performance.

---
