# Basic Network Concepts

## Elastic IP Addresses(EIP)

- Elastic IP는 AWS에서 제공해주는 public ip address이다.
- EIP는 instance가 아닌 계정에 종속되며 하나의 리소스에서 다른 리소스로 이동시킬 수 있다.

  - AWS에게 release하지 않으면 아무런 instance에 attach되어 있지 않아도 과금된다.

- If you associate an EIP to an instance that already has a pooled public IP address,  
  that pooled IP address will be released and put back into the pool and your instance will take on the EIP address.

- You can't convert an existing pooled public IP address to an EIP.

- General pooled pulbic IP address는 instance가 종료되면 release되고, 재시작되면 새로운 IP 주소를 할당받는 반면  
  EIP를 instance에 attach하면 instance가 stop되든 재시작되든 동일한 EIP 주소를 유지한다.

---

## Elastic Network Interfaces(ENIs)

- The configuration is bound to the ENI and not the instance that it is attached to.  
  This means that you can also detach your ENI from one instance, and reconnect it to another instance  
  and the configuration of that ENI would move with it. For example, a private IP address or an elastic IP address  
  or it's MAC address.

- When designing your solution and any requirements for multiple interfaces being attached to your instances,  
  you'll need to bear in mind that the quantity of interfaces is dependent on the EC2 instance type.

- ENI는 하나의 instance가 2개 이상의 subnet 내에서 있는 것처럼 하는 데 사용된다.

---

## EC2 Enhanced Networking with the Elastic Network Adapter(ENA)

- ENA(Elastic Network Adapter) is a customer interface used to optimize network performance.

  - ex) If you are looking to enable enhanced networking features to reach speeds of up to 100 Gbps for your  
    Linux compute instances, then you can do so using an ENA.

- ENAs are only supported on a limited number of instances.

- In addition to 100 Gbps speed, enhanced networking offers higher bandwidth with increased PPS(Packet Per Second) performance.
- A big bonnus of enhanced networking is that it is offered at no extra cost.
- When launching an instance using Amazon Linux 2 or with the latest version of the Amazon Linux AMI,  
  then the instance will have enhanced networking enabled by default.

---

## VPC Endpoints

- VPC Endpoints allow you to privately access AWS services using the AWS internal network instead of connecting to  
  such services via the internet using public DNS endpoints.

  - This means that you can connect to the supported services without configuring an Internet Gateway,  
    NAT Gateway, a Virtual Private Network or a Direct Connect connection.

### Interface Endpoints

- Interface Endpoints are essentially ENIs that are placed within a subnet that act as a target for any traffic  
  that is being sent to a supported services and operates through the use of PrivateLink.

  - PrivateLink allows a private and secure connection between VPCs, AWS services, and on-premises applications,  
    via the AWS internal network.

- One point to make is that when an interface endpoint is configured within your chosen subnet,  
  the service that it is associated with is NOT able to initiate a connection through to your VPC,  
  communication across this interface HAS to originate from within your VPC first before a response can be made by the service.

- When an interface endpoint is created for a service, a specific DNS hostname is created and is associated  
  with a private hosted zone in your VPC.

- Within this hosted zone a record set for the default DNS name of the service is created resolving to the  
  IP address of your interface endpoint.

- As a result, any applications using that service already does not need to be reconfigured.

- Requests to that service using the default DNS name will now be resolved to the private IP address of the  
  interface endpoint and will route through the internal AWS network instead of the internet.

### Gateway Endpoints

- A Gateway Endpoint is a target that is used within your route tables to allow you to reach supported services.

- During the creation of your Gateway endpoint you will be asked which route tables within your VPC should be  
  updated to add the new Target of the gateway endpoint.

- Any route table selected with then have a route automatically added to include the new Gateway Endpoint.

- The entry of the route will have a prefix list ID of the associated service (Amazon S3 or DynamoDB) and  
  the target entry will be the VPC Endpoint ID.

---

## AWS Global Accelerator

- The ultimate aim of the AWS Global Accelerator is to get UDP and TCP traffic from your end user clients  
  to your applications faster and quicker and more reliably, through the use of the AWS global infrastructure  
  and specified endpoints, instead of having to traverse the public internet, which is not as reliable  
  and carries a higher security risk.

- Global Accelerator uses two static IP addresses associated with a DNS name which is used as a fixed source  
  to gain access to your application which could be sitting behind a load balancer, such as a network or  
  application load balancer, or directly connected to your EC2 instance or the Elastic IP address.

- Because the routing of your request is based across the AWS Global Infrastructure, Global Accelerator  
  intelligently routes customers requests across the most optimized path using its global reach of edge locations,  
  for the lowest latency and avoids any resources that are unhealthy. This helps to improve regional failover  
  and high availability across your deployment.

### Steps to configure an AWS Global Accelerator

- (1) Firstly, you must create your accelerator and give it a name. You must also select if you want to use  
  two IP addresses from AWS' pool of IP addresses or use your own. For each accelerator created, you must select  
  two IP addresses.

- (2) Next, you need to create a listener. The listener is used to receive and process incoming connections  
  based upon both the protocol and ports specified, which can either be UDP or TCP based.

- (3) Once your listener is created you must associate it with an endpoint group. Each endpoint group is associated  
  with a different region, and within each group there are multiple endpoints. You can also set a traffic dial  
  for the endpoint group, and this is essentially a percentage of how much traffic you would like to go to that  
  endpoint group. And this helps you with blue/green deployments of your application to control the amount of  
  traffic to specific regions. At the stage of adding your endpoint groups you can also configure health checks  
  to allow the global accelerator to understand what should be deemed as healthy and unhealthy.

- (4) Finally, you must associate and register your endpoints for your application.  
  And this can either be an application load balancer, a network load balancer, an EC2 instance or an EIP.  
  For each endpoint, you can also assign a weight to route the percentage of traffic to that endpoint in  
  each of your endpoint groups.

---
