# DNS & Content Delivery on AWS

## Amazon Route53

- Route53 is Amazon's highly available and scalable domain name system.

  - Provides secure and reliable routing of requests, both for serviced within AWS and infrastructure  
    that is outside of AWS.

  - Provides this service through its global network of authoritative DNS servers that reduce latency and  
    can be managed via the management console of API.

### Hosted Zones

- Hosted zone is a container that holds information about how you want to route traffic for a domain such as `a.com`.

#### Public Hosted Zones

- This zone determines how traffic is routed on the internet and can be created when you register you domain  
  with Route53.

#### Private Hosted Zones

- For Amazon VPC, this zone determines how traffic is routed within the Amazon VPC.  
  If your resources are not accessible outside of the VPC, you can use any domain name you wish.

### Routing Policies

- When you create a resource record set, you must choose a routing policy that will be applied to it,  
  and this then determines how Route53 will respond to these queries.

  - Simple Routing Policy: This is the default policy, and it is for single resources that perform a given function.
  - Failover Routing Policy: This allows you to route traffic to different resources based upon their health.
  - Geo-Location Routing Policy: This lets you route traffic based on the geographic location of your users.
  - Geoproximity Routing Policy: This policy is based upon the location of both the users and your resources.
  - Latency Routing Policy: This is suitable when you have resources in multiple regions and want low latency.
  - Multivalue Answer Routing Policy: This allows you to get a response from DNS request from up to 8  
    records at once that are picked at random.
  - Weighted Routing Policy: This is suitable when you have multiple resource records that perfrom the same function.

---

## Amazon CloudFront

- Amazon CloudFront is AWS's fault-tolerant and globally scalable content delivery network service.  
  It provides seamless integration with other Amazon Web Services services to provide an easy way to distribute content.

- Speeds up distribution of your static and dynamic content through its worldwide network of edge locations.

- When using CloudFront, the request is routed to the closest edge to the user's location  
  which provides the lowest latency to deliver the best performance through cached data.

- If using an S3 Bucket as origin, then for additional security you can create a CloudFront user called  
  OAI(Origin Access Identity).

  - This ensures that only this OAI can access and serve content from you bucket and therefore  
    preventing anyone circumventing your CloudFront distribution by accessing the files
    directly in the bucket using the object URL.

---
