# AWS IAM

## What is Identity & Access Management (IAM)?

### Identity & Access Management Defined

- **Identities** are required to authenticate AWS accounts.
- **Access Management** relates to authorization and access control.
  - Access Control
    - Username and Password
    - MFA(Multi-Factor Authentication)
    - Federated Access
  - Authorization
    - List of permissions: `S3:CreateBucket`, `RDSReadOnly`, `EC2FullAccess`, `CloudTrailFullAccess`

### IAM Components

- The IAM Service is used to manage and control security permissions.

- Users: Objects within IAM identifying different users.
- Groups: Objects that contain multiple users.
- Roles: Objects that different identities can adopt to assume a new set of permissions.
- Policy Permissions: JSON policies that define what resources can and can't be accessed.
- Access Control Mechanisms: Mechanisms that govern how a resource is accessed.

### IAM is a Global Service

- IAM covers all regions.

### IAM Service

- IAM is the first service a user will interact with when using AWS.

### Importance of IAM

- It is critical to understand IAM and know how to implement its features:

  - Without IAM, there is no way of maintaining security or control the access to your resources.
  - IAM provides the components to manage access, but it is only as strong as you configure it.
  - The responsibility of implementing secure, robust and tight security within IAM is yours!

### IAM Responsibility

- How secure your access control procedures must be?
- How much should you restrict users access?
- How complex a password policy must be?
- Should you use MFA?

---

## Users, Groups and Roles

### Users

- User objects are created to represent an identity:

  - A user can represent a real person who requires access to operate and maintain your AWS environment.
  - Or it can be an account used by an application that requires permissions to access your AWS resources  
    programmatically.

- Users can be created via AWS Management Console or programmatically.

#### Steps to create user

- (1) Create a username.
- (2) Select AWS access type.
  - Programmatic access
  - AWS Management Console access
- (3) Define password if access type is AWS Management Console.
- (4) Permission assignment.
- (5) Review and confirm information.
- (6) Create user.
- (7) Download the security credentials within the `*.csv` file.

- In step (4), permissions can be assigned to the user or be inherited from a group

#### Access Keys

- Access keys are required for programmatic access for authentication.

  - Access Key ID
    - Made up of 20 random uppercase alphanumeric characters.
  - Secret Access Key ID
    - Made up of 40 random upper and lowercase characters.
    - It's not possible to retrieve lost secret access key IDs.

- These keys must be applied and associated with your application.
- If you're using the AWS CLI to access a resource, you first have to instruct the AWS CLI to use these Access Keys.
- This association ensures that all API requests are signed with this digital signature.

### Groups

- IAM groups are objects:

  - IAM Group are objects like user objects.
  - Groups are not used in authentication process.
  - They are used to authorize access through AWS policies.

- IAM Groups contain IAM Users and have IAM policies associated, which will allow or explicitly deny access to  
  AWS resources.

- Any users that are a member of that group inherit the permissions applied to that group.

> It makes it easy to modify permissions for multiple users at once.

#### Creating Groups

- (1) Give group a meaningful name.
- (2) Assign permissions via policies.
- (3) Review

### Roles

- IAM Roles allow you to adopt a set of temporary IAM permissions.
- Roles don't have any access keys or credentials associated with them.  
  The credentials are dynamically assigned by AWS.
- You can alter the permissions assigned to the Role and all the resources associated will have the correct access.

#### Roles and Users

- There are circumstances where you need to grant temporary access to a resource for a particular user.  
  Instead of adopting group permissions or granting permissions to the individual user, you can allow the user to  
  assume a Role temporarily.

#### Types of roles

- AWS Service Role

  - This role would be used by other services that would assume the role to perform specific functions based on  
    a set of permissions associated with it. Some examples of AWS Service Role would be Amazon EC2, AWS Directory  
    Services, and AWS Lambda, etc. Once you have selected your service role, you would then need to attach a policy  
    with the required permissions, and set a role name to complete its creation.

- AWS Service-Linked Role

  - These are very specific roles that are associated to certain AWS services.  
    They are pre-defined by AWS, and the **permissions can't be altered in any way**, as they are set to  
    perform a specific function. Examples of these AWS Service-Linked Roles are Amazon Lex-Bots,  
    and Amazon Lex-Channels. Once you have selected your service-linked role, you simply need to assign it a  
    name and complete the creation. Remember, **these roles do not allow you to modify the permissions assigned.**

- Role for Cross-Account Access

  - This role type offers two options. Providing access between AWS accounts that you own, and providing access  
    between an account that you own and a third party AWS account.

  - This access is managed by policies that establish trusting and trusted accounts that explicitly allow a trusted  
    principal to access specific resources.

  - At a high level, these roles are configured as follows.

    - The _trusting account_ is the account that has the resources that need to be accessed.
    - The _trusted account_ contains the users that need to access the resources in the _trusting account_.  
      A role is created in the _trusting account._ A _trust_ is then established with the role by entering the  
      AWS account number of the _trusted account_. Permissions are then applied to the role via policies.  
      And the group of users in the _trusted account_ then need to have permissions to allow them to assume  
      the role in the **trusting account**. These group of users would have a policy attached to the group.

- Role for Identity Provider Access

  - This Role type offers 3 options:

    - Grant access to web identity providers: Creates a _trust_ for users using Amazon Cognito, Amazon, Facebook,  
      Google or other Open ID connect providers.

    - Grant Web Single Sign On to SAML providers: Allows access for users coming from a SAML provider.

      > SAML: Security Assertion Markup Language

    - Grant API access to SAML providers: Allows access from SAML providers via the AWS CLI, SDKs or API calls.

---
