# Using IAM policies to define and manage permissions

## IAM Policy Types

### Identity-based Policies

- These policies can be attached to users, user groups or roles within IAM. Essentially, any entity that depicts  
  an identity.

- It could be either one of managed or inlined policy.

#### Managed Policy

- Managed policies are saved within the IAM library of policies and can be attached to any user, user group  
  or role, and the same policy can be attached to multiple entities.

##### AWS Managed Policy

- AWS managed policies are policies that have been pre-configured by AWS and made available to you to help you  
  manage some of the most common permissions that you may wish to assign.

##### Customer Managed Policy

- Customer managed policies are those that you have created yourself, which can then be associated with a user,  
  user group or role. You might want to create customer managed policies when the AWS managed policies do not  
  meet your security requirements.

#### Inline Policy

- Inline policies are embedded directly into the entity, either the user, user group or role.
- The policy is not saved and stored in the IAM library policy, its only existence is within the associated entity.  
  As a result, it can't easily be replicated to other entities, it's specific to that one user, user group or role,  
  creating a one-to-one relationship. It's not always best practice to use inline policies as they take a lot of  
  administration to keep on top of and should only be used if absolutely necessary.

### Resource-based Policies

- Effectively inline policies that are associated with a resource instead of an identity.  
  ex) Amazon S3 bucket policies

- Instead of being associated with an identity, these policies are attached in line to resources themselves.

### Permission Boundaries

- Permission boundaries can only be associated with a user or role.  
  It's not possible to add a boundary to a group.

- These policies can be associated with a role or user, but they don't actually grant permissions themselves,  
  instead they define the maximum level of permissions that can be granted to an entity.

- ex) 사용자에게 `AmazonS3FullAccess`가 identity based policy로 적용되어 있고, permission boundary로 `AmazonS3ReadOnlyAccess`가  
  적용되어 있다면 최대 권한은 permission boundary에 따라 `AmazonS3ReadOnlyAccess`로 제한된다.

### Organization Service Control Policies(SCPs)

- Very similar to permission boundaries in the fact that they do not grant permissions.

- They define a boundary of maximum permissions.  
  However, these service control policies are associated with an AWS account or organizational unit, an OU,  
  when working with AWS organizations and govern the maximum permissions to the members of those accounts.

---
