# AWS Shield

- AWS Shield has been designed to protect your infrastructure against DDos attacks.

  - The attack targets a web host, and it receives a huge number of requests simultaneously from  
    multiple distributed sources.

  - DDoS attacks prevent legitimate requests getting through, whilst at the same time severely hindering  
    the performance of the application or website.

- Also closely related to AWS WAF and AWS Firewall Manager.

### DDos Attack types

- SYN Flood

  - In a SYN Flood attack, a large number of connections are made to the host under attack.
  - The host will then respond accordingly with an SYN/ACK packet, at which point the client sending the  
    original connection request would normally respond with another SYN, completing the three-way handshake to allow
    communications to begin.
  - However, this final SYN packet is not sent to the host, and this leaves a huge number of open connections  
    on the host, resulting in diminished resources available to process legitimate requests.

- DNS Query Flood

  - By using multiple DNS queries an attacker can drain the resources against a DNS server, such as Route 53 in AWS.

- HTTP flood/Cache-busting

  - These attacks operate at layer seven, the application layer.
  - During an HTTP flood attack an attacker sends a large amount of HTTP requests, which may include POST and GET  
    requests to a host, consuming the resources available.
  - Cache-busting attacks are similar to HTTP floods, however, by using the HTTP request query string they are  
    able to force content to be retrieved from the originating server, rather than from an edge location,  
    which impacts the performance of the source servers available resources unnecessarily.

### AWS Shield Standard

- Free to everyone.
- Offers DDoS protection against common layer3(network) and layer4(transport) DDos attacks.
- This protection is integrated with both CloudFront and Route53.

### AWS Shield Advanced

- Offers a greater level of protection for DDoS attacks across a wider scope of AWS services for an additional cost.
- This advanced level offers protection against your web apps running on EC2, CloudFront, ELB and also Route53.
- There are enhanced level of DDoS protection offered compared to that of Standard.
- Also gives access to a 24/7 specialized DDoS response team at AWS.
- Can view real-time metrics of any attacks against your resources.
- Protection against layer3(network), layer4(transport) and also layer7(application).
- Cost protection as a part of the plan.
  - Will also get AWS WAF included in the same price.

---

## Configuring AWS Shield

- AWS Shield is account specific.

### Specifying resources

- You need to manually select the resources needing protection.
- You can select the resources using ARN, so simply select all supported resources from a dropdown list.
  - To protect EC2, you must associate an EIP to your EC2 instance to it.

### Adding rate-based rules

- Having rate-based rules configured can be a primary indicator that a DDoS attack is in progress.
- Rate-based rule counts the number of requests that are being received from a particular IP address  
  over a time period of 5 minutes.
- If there is a surge in requests from a particular IP address out of the ordinary, then these rate based rules  
  can alert you of this behavior.
- Rate-based rules are only associated with CloudFront distributions and ALBs.
- For each supported resource in the list, it is recommended that you associate a Web ACL with a rate-based rule.
- To change the Web ACL associated to your resource, you must remove it from the Web ACL with WAF before associating  
  it to a new one.

### Authorizing the AWS DRT

- The AWS DRT(AWS DDos Response Team) may have the ability to review, update and modify your Web ACLs and  
  Shield configurations during an attack.

- DRT에 대한 접근은 거부할 수 있으며, 만약 원한다면 business, enterprise support plan을 구독해야 한다.

- The authorization process is governed by an IAM role where you can either create a new or select an existing role.
- Creating a new role will set up the relevant permissions automatically.
- You must ensure that it has the `AWSShieldDRTAccessPolicy` managed policy attached.

- It is also possible to allow the DRT to access flow log information stored in an S3 bucket.

  - Supply the name of the bucket and the DRT will be given permissions of `s3:GetBucketLocation`, `s3:GetObject`, and  
    `s3:ListBucket` to review the flow log information.

### Setting up alarms and notifications

- AWS Shield configures the SNS topic for each region specified.
- It also configures CloudWatch metrics to notify you of any potential DDoS activity.
- It's also possible to configure a CloudWatch dashboard of the data collected by Shield Advanced.

---
