# AWS Firewall Manager

## AWS Firewall Manager and prerequisites

- The core function of AWS Firewall Manager is to help you simplify the management of being able to provide  
  security protection to a range of different resources, between multiple AWS accounts.  
  It's the fact that **it works across multiple account infrastructure**, that gives this service a lot of power  
  from a security perspective.

- Once your configured security policies to govern the protections that you require for your resources,  
  AWS Firewall Manager will then automatically apply this protection in addition to managing this protection  
  for any newly created resources, that match your configuration across any of your accounts that it has  
  responsibility for. So, once it's set up, the management and protection efforts are simplified dramatically,  
  across your entire organization.

- AWS services and resources that Firewall Manager provides protection for and ingrate with are:

  - AWS WAF
  - AWS Shield Advanced
  - AWS Network Firewall
  - VPC Security Groups
  - Amazon Route53 Resolver DNS Firewall

- AWS Firewall Manager is also closely integrated with AWS Organizations.

  - Running AWS Organizations is a prerequisite of using Firewall Manager.
  - AWS Organizations is a service which provides a means of centrally managing and categorizing multiple AWS accounts  
    that you own, bringing them together into a single organization.

### Firewall Manager prerequisites

- (1) Choose an account which will be used as your Firewall Manager Administrator account.  
  This account will be used to essentially manage your security policies.
- (2) Ensure that this account is a part of an AWS Organization
- (3) Configure AWS Firewall Manager within that account as the Firewall Manager Administrator Account
- (4) Enable AWS Config.

---

## AWS Firewall Manager Policies

- For each type of resource that you want to protect, there is a different policy, each with a slightly different configuration.

### Policy types

- AWS WAF Policy

  - AWS WAF is a service that helps to prevent websites or web applications from being maliciously attacked by  
    common web attack patterns, and it uses Web ACL's as the main building block of the service to determine  
    which web requests are considered safe and which ones are not. So by using this WAF policy you can create  
    a set of Firewall Manager Rule Groups to run at the beginning and the end of your Web ACLs that you have configured.

- AWS Shield Advanced Policy

  - AWS Shield services is designed to help protect your infrastructure against distributed denial of service attacks,  
    commonly known as DDoS. This policy allows you to apply Shield advanced protection across your accounts and resources.

- AWS Network Firewall Policy

  - AWS Network Firewalls allow you to protect your VPCs from common network threats by implementing fine-grained  
    firewall rules enabling you to control which traffic is permitted and which should be blocked.  
    Using this policy allows you to manage these firewall rules across your VPCs running in multiple AWS accounts.

- Amazon VPC Security Group Policy

  - Security groups are used to control traffic at the instance level based upon port and protocol types.
  - By using this policy, it allows you to manage all of your security groups across your entire AWS organization,  
    giving you centralized control.

- Amazon Route53 Resolver DNS Firewall Policy

  - Amazon Route53 Resolver DNS Firewall is a service that allows you to control access to your DNS servers  
    from your AWS accounts.
  - This resolver DNS Firewall is a managed firewall that allows you to block DNS queries made against known  
    malicious domains, in addition to allowing queries for your trusted domains.
  - As a result, this Policy enables you to control these Route 53 resolver DNS Firewall protections across  
    all the VPCs in your AWS organization.

### Steps to create a policy

- (1) Choose your policy and region
- (2) Describe the policy: Define the details of the policy, which is dependent on which policy you selected.
- (3) Define the policy scope: Define which resources and accounts are covered by the policy that you're creating.
- (4) Configure policy tags(optional): Allows you to associate a resource tag to the policy.
- (5) Review and create policy

> - Generally the costs of Firewall Manager policies are charged at $100 per policy for each region.
> - For each policy you create, it will also create AWS Config rules, and in turn these rules will also incur  
>   additional charges.

---
