# Amazon Cognito

## Basics of Amazon Cognito

- Amazon Cognito is an authentication and user management service.
- Has a strong integration with third-party identity providers such as Apple, Facebook, Google, and Amazon.
- Allows you to federate identities from your own active directory services so that your AD users can have access to your own external web and mobile applications.

---

## Amazon Cognito User Pools

- The primary concern of Cognito User Pools is to create and maintain a directory of your users for your  
  mobile or web applications. This means dealing with both signing up, and signing in, your new and returning users.

- Has the functionality to require MFA
- Has the ability to have social sign-in.
- Also supports SAML.
- Supports customizable web UI.

  - Using this customizable UI provides you with an OAuth 2.0 compliant authorization server.

- Provides AWS Lambda integrations.

  - Gives you the option to trigger functions based on user flow.

- 즉 Cognito User Pool은 해당 서비스를 사용하는 사용자들이다.

---

## Cognito User Pools Authentication Flow

- When the user provides the credentials for authentication:

  - (1) Application calls `InitiateAuth` operation with those credentials, which kicks off the authentication flow.  
    It directly indicates to Amazon Cognito that you want to authenticate.
  - (2) When the call is successful, Cognito will response either with a token or with a challenge.
  - (3) Challenge can include CAPTCHAs or dynamic challenge questions.(Normally used to help screen for bots)  
    You can also insert your own custom challenges if you wish. This will be sent back to the client and it now  
    becomes _their problem_.
  - (4) When the client is ready to respond back to Cognito, they can reply with `RespondToAuthChallenge` and provide  
    whatever information the challenge requires back.
  - (5) If the user fails the challenge, you can have Cognito set up to respond a new one.  
    (can be multiple rounds)
  - (6) When successful, Cognito will shoot back some tokens for the client to use.

---

## Amazon Cognito Identity Pools

- Amazon Cognito Identity Pools, also known as Federated Identities, help to provide temporary access to AWS  
  credentials for your users or guests.

- Can work in tandem with Amazon Cognito User Pools, allowing users to operate and access whatever specific feature  
  they need from AWS.

- Like with User Pools, you can federate with public providers such as Amazon, Facebook, and Google.

- Each identity within your identity pool has to be in one of the following states:

  - Authenticated
  - Unauthenticated

- To gain the authenticated state, a user must be authenticated by a public login provider.  
  This can be your Amazon Cognito user pool from early, or can also be any of those other public ID providers  
  like Amazon, Apple, Facebook, Google, SAML, and even an Open ID connect provider.

- Unauthenticated identities can be useful for a number of reasons, but the primary ones might be for allowing  
  users to see various AWS resources before they are completely logged in. Giving them some visibility into  
  dashboards for example - so they could at a glance see if something was wrong.

- You can also use Unauthenticated identities to act as a sort of guest pass for when you want people to have some  
  access to basic services and later prompting them to sign in or sign up.

- Each type of identity has a role that goes along with it.  
  Roles have policies attached to them, that set the permissions for what that user is allowed to do within AWS.  
  Roles help to define boundaries and allow you to explicitly state what an authenticated or unauthorized user can,  
  and can not, modify or even see.

- Identity pools are used for authentication and access control(specifically for AWS services).  
  While user pools are designed for sign-up and sign-in type operations.

---

## Cognito Identity Pools Authentication Flow

- (1) Your application needs to have the user sign in with Cognito user pools and that can take place using either  
  the user pool itself, a social sign-in, your SAML-backed authentication service or something of that ilk.

- (2) An Identity Token is sent by the IDP back to the Cognito user Pool.  
  Cognito **does not store the credentials by the IDP or forward this to your mobile app**, instead, the IDP token  
  will be normalized into a standard token, called a **Cognito User Pool Token, or CUP token** and this will be used  
  and stored by Cognito. This essentially means that it doesn’t matter if the user authenticated via an account  
  in the User Pool, or federated access, all tokens will be standardized that are sent back to your app.

- (3) User can then interact with back-end services or APIs that you have created, for example, you might be using  
  API Gateway or Lambda - which accepts these CUP Tokens, so Cognito will use the same CUP token to authenticate  
  and authorize you to use those APIs with API Gateway, etc.

  - There are some service that do not allow to use CUP tokens for authentication, such as S3 or DynamoDB.  
    In this case, CUP Token can be sent to the Identity Pool, where an STS Token(Security Token Service) will be  
    created based off your CUP token, and this will be sent back to your application.

  - With these AWS credentials, your application will be allowed to call upon those other AWS services.

- These credentials will be linked to an AWS role you have associated with your users within the identity pool.

---
