# AWS Identity Federation

## Using AWS Identity Federation to simplify access at scale

### What is Identity Federation?

- A method where two different providers can establish a level of trust allowing users to authenticate from one,  
  which authorizes them to access resources in the other.

- During the federation process, one party would act as an Identity Provider, known as an IdP, and the other would be  
  the Service Provider, an SP. The identity provider authenticates the user, and the service provider controls access  
  to their service or resources based on IdPs authentication.

- 소셜 로그인의 경우 Google이라 치면 Google이 IdP가 되고, 내 애플리케이션이 Service Provider가 된다.

- Benefits of identity federation

  - Can easily set up access control systems.
  - Flexibility for end users.
  - Makes it easy for service providers.

- AWS는 identity federation을 위해 아래의 서비스들을 제공한다.

  - AWS Single Sign-On(SSO)
  - AWS IAM
  - Amazon Cognito

### AWS SSO

- This service has primarily been designed for users to easily access multiple accounts within their AWS Organization  
  enabling a single sign-on approach negating the need to provide credentials for each account.

### AWS IAM

- Identity federation allows you to access and manage AWS resources even if you don't have a user account within IAM.

- Whereas AWS SSO allows you to create a single sign-on approach to multiple accounts in your AWS organization  
  using the in-built user directory or MS-AD, AWS IAM allows you to configure federated access to your AWS accounts  
  and resources using different identity providers for each AWS account.

---
