# KMS

## What is KMS?

### What is data encryption?

- Information is altered rendering plaintext data unreadable through mathematical algorithms and  
  encryption keys.

- An encryption key is required to revert the ciphertext back to plaintext.

- A key is a string of characters; the longer the key, the more robust the encryption.

- This encryption can be categorized by symmetric or asymmetric cryptography.

### Symmetric cryptography

- A **single key** is used to both encrypt and decrypt data.

- If the data was being reed by a different person, that person would need to be issued the same key.

- If the key is intercepted during the transmission, any data associated could be easily decrypted.

  - AWS KMS resolves this issue by acting as a central repository, governing and storing the keys required  
    and only issues the decryption keys to those who have sufficient permissions to do so.

- Some commoly used symmetric cryptography algorithms are:
  - AES
  - DES
  - Triple-DES
  - Blowfish

> AWS KMS only uses symmetric cryptography.

### KMS(Key Management Service)

- KMS is a managed service used to store and generate encryption keys that are used by other AWS services and applications.

  - For example, S3 may use the KMS to enable S3 to offer and perform server-side encryption using SSE-KMS.

- KMS contains the keys to decrypt your private data.

  - Administrators at AWS do not have access to your keys within KMS.
  - All administrative actions require dual authentication by two Amazon administrators.
  - It's our(customer) responsibility to administer our own encryption keys.

- KMS is for **encryption at rest**.  
  KMS does not perform encryption for data in transit or in motion.

#### Encryption at rest

- Server-side encryption

  - Encryption is done by the server.
  - Backend servers that encrypt the data as it arrives transparent to the end user.(ex. SSE-KMS)
  - The overhead of performing encryption and managing the keys is handled by the server.

- Client-side encryption

  - Encryption is done by the end user.
  - Requires the user to interact with the data to make the data encrypted.
  - The overhead of encryption process is on the client.

### Compliance and Regulations

- KMS works seamlessly with AWS CloudTrail to audit and track how your encryption keys are being used and by whom.

### Regions

- For most cases, KMS is a regional service.

---

## Components of KMS

### Key componente of KMS

- CMK(Customer Master Keys)
- DEK(Data Encryption Keys)
- Key Policies
- Grants

### CMK(Customer Master Keys)

- This is the main key type within KMS.
- This key can encrypt data up to 4KB in size.
- It is typically used in relation to your DEKs.
- The CMK can generated, encrypt and decrypt these DEKs.

- There are 2 types of CMKs:

  - AWS Managed CMKs:

    - These are used by other AWS services that interact with KMS to encrypt data.
    - They can only be used by the service that created them within a particular region.
    - They are created on the first time you implement encryption using that service.

  - Customer Managed CMKs:
    - These provide the ability to implement greater flexibility.
    - You can perform rotation, governing issues and key policy configuration.
    - You are able to enable and disable the key when it is no longer needed.

  > AWS services can also be configured to user your own customer CMKs.

### DEK(Data Encryption Keys)

- DEKs are used to encrypt your data of any size.

#### Process of SSE-KMS(Server side encryption of S3 objects) encryption

- (1) End user or client uploads the object to S3, specifying that SSE-KMS should be used.
- (2) S3 contacts KMS, and using the specified CMK, KMS generates two data keys:
  - A plain text data key.
  - An encrypted version of that data key.
- (3) Boths of these keys created by KMS are sent back to S3, at which point S3 can then encrypt  
  the object that was uploaded using the plain text data key to generate an encrypted version of your object.
- (4) S3 stores the encrypted data key and the encrypted object.
  - Plain text data key is deleted from the memory.

#### Process of SSE-KMS decryption

- (1) User requests access to the encrypted object within S3.
- (2) S3 sends the associated encrypted data key to KMS to generate a plain text data key of that encrypted  
  data key, using the assocated CMK.
- (3) Plain text data key is sent back to S3 to be used to decrypt the object from KMS.
- (4) S3 decrypts the object and returns the decrypted object to the user.

### Key Policies

- The key policies allow you to define who can use an daccess a key in KMS.

  - These policies are tied to the CMKs, so they are resource-based policies.
  - Different key policies can be created for different CMKs.
  - These permissions are defined within a key policy JSON document.

### Grants

- Grants are another method of controlling access and use of the CMKs held within KMS.

  - They allow you to delegate a subset of your own access to a CMK for principals, such as another AWS  
    service within your AWS account.

  - There is less risk of someone altering the access control permissions for that CMK.
  - Grants eliminates the possibility of anyone using the permission `kms:PutKeyPolicy`.

---

## Understanding Permissions & Key Policies

### Permissions & Key Policies

- Access control for most services can be completely controlled and governed by using IAM alone.  
  But for KMS, this is not the case.

- In all cases, to manage access to your CMKs, you **must** use a Key Policy associated to your CMK.

  - Using Key Policies
  - Using Key Policies with IAM
  - Using Key Policies with Grants

### Using Key Policies

- Key Policies are resource based which are tied to your CMK.

  - A Key Policy is a JSON based document much like IAM policies.

    - Resource
    - Action
    - Effect
    - Principal
    - Conditions(optional)

- KMS creates a default Key Policy for you to allow principals to use the CMK in question.
  - **A Key Policy is required for all CMKs!**
- KMS configures the root user of the AWS account full access to the CMK.
- If the full access user was deleted from IAM, you would need to contact AWS Support to regain the control.

- When the root account has full access to the Key Policy, access to the CMK can be given by normal IAM policies for users and roles.

  - Without the root account having full access to the Key Policy, IAM can't be used to manage access for other users.

```json
{
  "Sid": "Enable IAM User Permission",
  "Effect": "Allow",
  "Principal": { "AWS": "arn:aws:iam::123412341234:root" },
  "Action": "kms:*",
  "Resource": "*"
}
```

- `"Resource"` section means _'this CMK'_ that the key policy is being applied to.

- Creating the CMK through the Management Console gives you the chance to configure different permission sets:

  - Define the Key administrators.
    - Principals can only administr the CMK, not use it to perform any encryption function.
    - You can also specify if you would like them to be able to delete the key.
    - Although these key administrators do not have access to use the CMK, they do have access to update the associated Key Policy.
  - Define the CMK users.
    - Which users should be allowed to peform any encryption using this CMK.
    - Users can also use Grants to delegate a subset of their own permissions to another principal, such as a service integrated with KMS  
      or another user.
    - You can restrict access to CMKs in via the `"Effect"` element.

### Using Key Policies with IAM Policies

- You can also use key policies in conjunction with IAM policies, but only if you have the following entry within the key policy allowing the  
  root full KMS access to the CMK.

```json
{
  "Sid": "Enable IAM User Permission",
  "Effect": "Allow",
  "Principal": { "AWS": "arn:aws:iam::123412341234:root" },
  "Action": "kms:*",
  "Resource": "*"
}
```

- By doing so enables you to centralize your permissions administration from within IAM as you would likely be doing for many other AWS services.  
  This would mean you can configure your IAM policies to allow users, groups and roles to perform the encryption and decryption process,  
  for example using the KMS Encrypt and KMS Decrypt permissions.

### Using Key Policies with Grants

- They allow you to delegate your permissions to another AWS principal within your AWS account.

- Grants are another resource based method of access control to the CMKs.
- They need to be created using the AWS KMS APIs.
- Different parameters are also issued such as the CMK identifier, the grantee principal and the required level of operations.
- After the Grant has been created, a GrantToken and a GrantID are issued.

### CMK Access

- There are 3 potential ways of gaining access and use to a CMK, through the Key Policy, with IAM Policies and also Grants.  
  For clear understanding, let's think of a situation as below.

- CMK-A Key Policy: Access to the root account(enables IAM Policies)
- CMK-B Key Policy: Access to Bob, Charlie
- CMK-C Key Policy: Access to the root account, denied to Bob, Charlie, David and full access is given to Alice
- Alice: IAM policy allows actions to CMK-A, CMK-B
- Bob: No IAM policy
- Charlie: IAM policy allows `KMS:Encrypt` to CMK-A
- David: IAM policy allows actions to CMK-B, CMK-C

- So let's now look at each of these user's access and what they have access to.

  - Alice: Alice's access to CMK-A is successful as her IAM policy allows all KMS actions against CMK-A and CMK-A allows for IAM policies to be used.  
    Her access to CMK-B provides no access as the key policy for this CMK does not allow for IAM policies to be used.  
    And her access to CMK-C is successful as the key policy allows her access despite her having no IAM policy relating to permissions.

  - Bob: His access to CMK-A is denied as there are no explicit entries in the key policy for Bob's access and he has no IAM policy.  
    His access to CMK-B is successful as the key policy allows him access despite him having no IAM policy relating to permissions.  
    Access is denied to CMK-C due to explicit deny actions within the key policy and an explicit deny will always overrule any other allow.

  - Charlie: For CMK-A, he has encrypt access only which is given through his IAM policy and IAM policy permissions are allowed.  
    For CMK-B, access is also successful as the key policy allows him access. His IAM policy permissions are irrelevant as the CMK does not allow  
     for IAM policies to be used. And his access to CMK-C is denied due to the explicit deny actions within the key policy and an explicit deny  
     will overrule any other allow.

  - David: He has no access to CMK-A as neither the key policy or his IAM policy provides permissions.  
    He has no access to CMK-B as the key policy for this CMK does not allow for IAM policies to be used and access is also denied to CMK-C  
    due to explicit deny actions within the key policy.

---
