# CloudHSM

## What is CloudHSM?

- HSM: Hardware Security Module

  - HSM is a tamper-resistant hardware appliance that is used to protect and safeguard cryptographic material  
    and encryption keys.

- AWS CloudHSM service provides HSMs that are validated to Federal Information Processing Standards (FIPS)  
  140-2 Level 3, which is often required if you are going to be using your CloudHSM for document signing  
  or if you intend to operate a public certificate authority for SSL certificates.

- CloudHSM is a physical device, and it’s important to note that this device is not shared with any other customer,  
  so it’s NOT a multi-tenant device. It is a dedicated single-tenant appliance exclusively made available to you,  
  for your own workloads.

- CloudHSM is an enterprise-class service used for secure encryption key management and storage which can be used  
  as a root of trust for an enterprise when it comes to data protection allowing you to deploy secure and compliant  
  workloads within AWS.

- There are a number of different operations that CloudHSM can help you provide:

  - The creating, storage and management of cryptographic keys, allowing you to import and export both  
    asymmetric and symmetric keys.

  - The ability to use cryptographic hash functions to enable you to compute message digests and hash-based message  
    authentication codes, otherwise knows as HMACs.

  - Cryptographic data signing and signature verification.

  - Using boty asymmetric and symmetric encryption algorithms.

  - Ability to generate cryptographically secure random data.

### Asymmetric Encryption

- Asymmetric encryption involves two different keys:

  - One key is used to encrypt the data.
  - Another key is used to decrypt the data.

- Two keys are both created at the same time, and are linked through a mathematical algorithm.

- One key is considered the _private key_ and should be kept by a single party and should never be shared with  
  anyone else. The other key is considered the _public key_ and this key cna be given and shared with anyone.

- It doesn't matter who has access to the public key, as without the private key, any data encrypted with it  
  cannot be accessed.

- Common examples of asymmetric cryptography algorithms:
  - RSA
  - Diffie-Hellman
  - Digital Signature Algorithm

### Symmetric Encryption

- A single key is used to both encrypt and also decrypt the data.

- This key must be sent securely between the two parties, and here it exposes a weakeness in this method.
- If the key is intercepted by anyone during that transmission, then that third party could easily decrypt any  
  data associated with that key.

- Common examples of symmetric cryptography algorithms:

  - AES
  - DES
  - Triple-DES

- AWS CloudHSM is not the only encryption service available with AWS, there is also KMS.  
  KMS is a managed service used to store and generate encryption keys that can be used by other AWS services  
  and applications to encrypt your data. Much like CloudHSM, KMS uses HSMs, but with KMS, these are managed by AWS,  
  as a result you have less management control of the keys and key material.

---
