# Encryption Mechanisms

## Overview of Encryption Mechanisms

### Server-Side Encryption with S3 managed keys(SSE-S3)

- Requires minimal configuration.
- Management of encryption keys are managed by AWS.
- All you need to do is to upload your data, and S3 will handle all other aspects.

### Server-Side Encryption with KMS managed keys(SSE-KMS)

- Allows S3 to use KMS to generate data encryption keys
- Gives greater flexibility of key management:
  - Disabling, Rotating, and applying access controls to the CMKs.

### Server-Side Encryption with Customer provided keys(SSE-C)

- Gives you the opportunity to provide your own master keys.
- Your customer provided key would be sent with your data to S3, where S3 would then perform the encryption for you.

### Client-Side Encryption with KMS managed keys(CSE-KMS)

- Uses KMS to generate data encryption keys.
- KMS is called upon via the client, not by S3.
- Encryption takes place at the client-side and the encrypted data is then sent to S3.

### Client-Side Encryption with Customer provided keys(CSE-C)

- You are able to utilize your own provided keys.
- Use an AWS SDK Client to encrypt your data before sending it to S3 for storage.

---

## SSE-S3(Server-Side Encryption with S3 managed keys)

### Encryption Process

- (1) Client uploads `object data` to S3.
- (2) S3 takes this `object data` and encrypts it within an `S3 Plaintext Data Key`, which creates an encrypted version of  
  the object data.
- (3) Encrypted version of the `object data` is saved and stored on S3.
- (4) `S3 Plaintext Data Key` is encrypted with an `S3 Master Key`, which creates an `Encrypted S3 Data Key`.
- (5) `Encrypted S3 Data Key` is also stored on S3, and `S3 Plaintext Data Key` is removed from the memory.

### Decryption Process

- (1) Request is made by the client to S3 to retrieve the `object data`.
- (2) S3 takes the associated `Encrypted S3 Data Key` off the `object data`, and decrypts it with the `S3 Master Key`.
- (3) `S3 Plaintext Data Key` is then used to decrypt the `object data`.
- (4) Decrypted object data is sent back to the client.

---

## SSE-KMS(Server-Side Encryption with KMS managed keys)

### Encryption Process

- (1) A client uploads `object data` to S3.
- (2) S3 requests `data keys` fomr a KMS-CMK.
- (3) Using the specified `CMK`, KMS generates two data keys:
  - `Plaintext Data Key`
  - An `encrypted version of the same data key`.
- (4) These two keys are sent back to S3 from KMS.
- (5) S3 combines the `object data` and the `plaintext data key` to perform the encryption.
- (6) An encrypted version of the `object data` is created, and it is stored on S3 along with the `encrypted data key`.
- (7) `Plaintext data key` is removed from memory.

### Decryption Process

- (1) A request is made by the client to S3 to retrieve the `object data`.
- (2) S3 sends the associated `encrypted data key` of the `object data` to KMS.
- (3) KMS uses the correct CMK with the `encrypted data key` to decyprt it, and creates a `plaintext data key`.
- (4) `Plaintext data key` is then sent back to S3.
- (5) `Plaintext data key` is then combined with the encrypted `object data` to decrypt it.
- (6) Decrypted object data is sent back to the client.

---
