# S3 Encryption Mechanisms

## Overview of S3 Encryption Mechanisms

### Server-Side Encryption with S3 managed keys(SSE-S3)

- Requires minimal configuration.
- Management of encryption keys are managed by AWS.
- All you need to do is to upload your data, and S3 will handle all other aspects.

### Server-Side Encryption with KMS managed keys(SSE-KMS)

- Allows S3 to use KMS to generate data encryption keys
- Gives greater flexibility of key management:
  - Disabling, Rotating, and applying access controls to the CMKs.

### Server-Side Encryption with Customer provided keys(SSE-C)

- Gives you the opportunity to provide your own master keys.
- Your customer provided key would be sent with your data to S3, where S3 would then perform the encryption for you.

### Client-Side Encryption with KMS managed keys(CSE-KMS)

- Uses KMS to generate data encryption keys.
- KMS is called upon via the client, not by S3.
- Encryption takes place at the client-side and the encrypted data is then sent to S3.

### Client-Side Encryption with Customer provided keys(CSE-C)

- You are able to utilize your own provided keys.
- Use an AWS SDK Client to encrypt your data before sending it to S3 for storage.

---

## SSE-S3(Server-Side Encryption with S3 managed keys)

### Encryption Process

- (1) Client uploads `object data` to S3.
- (2) S3 takes this `object data` and encrypts it within an `S3 Plaintext Data Key`, which creates an encrypted version of  
  the object data.
- (3) Encrypted version of the `object data` is saved and stored on S3.
- (4) `S3 Plaintext Data Key` is encrypted with an `S3 Master Key`, which creates an `Encrypted S3 Data Key`.
- (5) `Encrypted S3 Data Key` is also stored on S3, and `S3 Plaintext Data Key` is removed from the memory.

### Decryption Process

- (1) Request is made by the client to S3 to retrieve the `object data`.
- (2) S3 takes the associated `Encrypted S3 Data Key` off the `object data`, and decrypts it with the `S3 Master Key`.
- (3) `S3 Plaintext Data Key` is then used to decrypt the `object data`.
- (4) Decrypted object data is sent back to the client.

---

## SSE-KMS(Server-Side Encryption with KMS managed keys)

### Encryption Process

- (1) A client uploads `object data` to S3.
- (2) S3 requests `data keys` from a KMS-CMK.
- (3) Using the specified `CMK`, KMS generates two data keys:
  - `Plaintext Data Key`
  - An `encrypted version of the same data key`.
- (4) These two keys are sent back to S3 from KMS.
- (5) S3 combines the `object data` and the `plaintext data key` to perform the encryption.
- (6) An encrypted version of the `object data` is created, and it is stored on S3 along with the `encrypted data key`.
- (7) `Plaintext data key` is removed from memory.

### Decryption Process

- (1) A request is made by the client to S3 to retrieve the `object data`.
- (2) S3 sends the associated `encrypted data key` of the `object data` to KMS.
- (3) KMS uses the correct CMK with the `encrypted data key` to decrypt it, and creates a `plaintext data key`.
- (4) `Plaintext data key` is then sent back to S3.
- (5) `Plaintext data key` is then combined with the encrypted `object data` to decrypt it.
- (6) Decrypted object data is sent back to the client.

---

## SSS-C(Server-Side Encryption with Customer provided keys)

### Encryption Process

- (1) A client uploads `object data` and the `Customer-provided key` to S3 through HTTPS.
  - It will only work with the HTTPS connection. Otherwise, S3 will reject it.
- (2) S3 uses the `Customer-provided key` to encrypt the `object data`.
- (3) S3 also creates a salted `HMAC value` of the `Customer-provided key` for future validation requests.
- (4) The encrypted `object data`, along with the `HMAC value` of the `Customer-provided key` is saved and stored on S3.
- (5) `Customer-provided key` is removed from memory.

### Decryption Process

- (1) A request is made by the client via HTTPS connection to S3 to retrieve the `object data`.  
  At the same time, the `Customer-provided key` is also sent within the request.
- (2) S3 uses the `HMAC value` of the same key to confirm it's validity of the requested object.
- (3) The `Customer-provided key` is then used to decrypt the encrypted `object data`.
- (4) Decrypted `object data` is sent back to the client.

---

## CSE-KMS(Client-Side Encryption with KMS managed keys)

### Encryption Process

- (1) Using an AWS SDK, a request is made to KMS for `data keys` that are generated from a specific CMK.
- (2) This CMK is defined by providing the `CMK-ID` in the request.
- (3) KMS generates two `data keys` from the specified CMK.
  - `Plaintext Data Key`
  - `Cipher blob of the same data key`
- (4) Both keys generated are sent back to the client.
- (5) Client combines the `object data` with the `plaintext data key` to create an encrypted version of the `object data`.
- (6) Client then uploads both the encrypted `object data` and the `cipher blob of the data key` to S3.
- (7) S3 stores the encrypted `object data` and associates the `cipher blob of data key` as metadata of the  
  encrypted `object data`.

### Decryption Process

- (1) A request is made by the client to S3 to retrieve the `object data`.
- (2) S3 sends both the encrypted `object data` and the `cipher blob of data key` to the client.
- (3) Using AWS SDK, `cipher blob data key` is sent to KMS.
- (4) KMS combines the `cipher blob data key` with the corresponding CMK to produce the `plaintext data key`.
- (5) `Plaintext data key` is sent back to the client, and this is used to decrypt the encrypted `object data`.

---

## CSE-C(Client-Side Encryption with Customer provided keys)

### Encryption Process

- (1) Using an AWS SDK, it randomly generates a `plaintext data key` which is used to encrypt the `object data`.
- (2) The `customer-provided CMK` is then used to encrypt this client-generated `plaintext data key`.
- (3) Encrypted `object data` and `encrypted data key` are sent to S3.
- (4) S3 stores the encrypted `object data` and associates the `encrypted data key` as metadata of the  
  encrypted `object data`.

### Decryption Process

- (1) A request is made by the client to S3 to retrieve the `object data`.
- (2) S3 sends both the encrypted `object data` and the `encrypted data key` back to the client.
- (3) The `customer-provided CMK` is then used to decrypted the `encrypted data key`, which generates `plaintext data key`.
- (4) The `plaintext data key` is then used to decrypt the `object data`.

---
