# Project Managagement

- Project Management: Process of planning, organizing, controlling and measuring

- Project Management is a dynamic process that utilizes the appropriate resources of the organization in a  
  controlled and structured manner.

  - Constraints: Always conducted within a defined set of resources.(ex. Limited human resources.)

- Process for project management
  - Initiating
  - Planning
  - Execution
  - Monitoring and Controlling
  - Closing

### WBS - Work Breakdown Structure

- Deliverable-oridented decomposition of a project into smaller and manageable components.

- Items in WBS

  - ANY TASKS needed to complete the project.
    - Management tasks
    - Developing tasks
    - Testing tasks
    - Deployment tasks

### The Four P's

- People

  - Stakeholder: A person, group of people, or an organization having a vested interest in the target system.

- Product
- Process
- Project

### Agile Teams

- Team members must have trust in one another.
- Team should be _self organizing._

---

## Estimation Techniques

### Project Planning Process

- Establish project scope.
- Determine feasibility.
- Analyze risks.
- Define required resources.
  - Human resources
  - Reusable software resources
  - Environmental resources
- Estimate cost and effort.

### Software Project Estimation

- Project scope must be understood.
- Decomposition is necessary.
- Historical metrics are very helpful.
- At least two different techniques should be used.
- Uncertainty is inherent in the process.

### Decomposition Techniques

- LOC(Lines OF Code), FP(Function Point) are used.

  - An estimation variable of _size_
  - Baseline metrics are collected from past projects.

- Steps

  - (1) Decompose the software scope into **problem functions that can each be estimated individually**.
  - (2) Estimate LOC or FP for each function.
    - Compute EV(Estimated Value), a weighted average of the _optimistic, most likely and pessimistic._
    - $EV = (S_opt + 4S_m + S_pess) / 6$
  - (3) Apply **basline productivity metrics** to derive cost or effort for each function

---
