# Intelligent Systems with Machine Learning

## Intelligence

### What is intelligence?

- The **ability to learn** or understand or to deal with new or **trying situations**.
- The **ability to apply knowledge** to maniuplate the environment or to think **abstractly** as  
  measured by objective criteria.

### Intelligence in the fucutre

- Accumulation of knowledge models

  - Super intelligence
    - Continuous Optimization
    - Autonomous Optimization(without human control)

### Intelligent System

- A **system that incorporates intelligence into applications**.  
  The intelligence is often delivered by **learning capabilities**.

- Intention
  - Quality Service: To perform more **accurate and effective operations** for solving the related problems.
  - Adaptability: A system adapts itslef to **deal with changes in problems**.

### Characteristics of Intelligent Systems

- Possesses one or more of these:

  - Capability to **extract and store knowledge**.
  - **Learning from experience**.
  - Dealing with **imprecise expressions** of facts.
  - Finding solutions through processes **similar to natural evolution**.

- Sophisticated interaction with users.
  - Natural language understanding.
  - Speech recognition and synthesis
  - Image analysis

---

## Machine Learning

### Classification of ML Systems

- Is it trained with human sypervision?(with data labels?)

  - Supervised learning(with labels)
  - Unsupervised learning(without labels)
  - Semisupervised learning(hybrid approach)

- Does it learn incrementally on the fly?

  - Online learning(updates model in runtime)
  - Batch learning

### Supervised Learning

- To use the training data including the desired solutions(ex. labels)

### Unsupervised Learning

- To use the unlabeled training data.

- Task of dimensionality reduction.

  - Goal: To simplify the data without losing too much information.

- Example: Detecting **unusual** credit card transactions to prevent fraud, etc.

### Semisupervised Learning

- Combination of unsupervised and supervised algorithms.
- To deal with partially labeled training data.
  - A lot of **unlabled** data and some **labeled** data.

### Reinforcement Learning

- **Agent** can **observe the environment**, select and perform actions, and get **rewards or penalties** in return.

- Utilizing **agents**
  - To observe the **environment**.
  - To select and perform **actions**.
  - To get **rewards or penalties** in return.
