# Introduction to Software Architecture

## Software Architecture

- System fundamental **concepts** or **properties** of a system in its environment embodied in its **element**,  
  **relationships**, and in the **principles** of its design and evolution.

- Goal of architecture design: To fulfill the **properties** of the target system.
- Constituents

  - Elements(components)
  - Relationships(Inter-component relationships)
  - Principles(Constraints on how the architecture consists of components and their relationships.)

- **Architecture reflects non-functional requirements** of the target system.

### Architectural Description(AD)

- A set of products that documents an architecture.

- AD must provide:
  - An **overal picture** that summarizes the whole system.
  - **Enough details** of the architecture so that it can be **validated** and the described system **can be built.**

### 4 Elements of Architecture Design

- Process: A systematic workflow of activities to design the software architecture.
- Styles: Defines an initial structure of the system.
- Viewpoints: Describes the architecture per view.
- NFR-driven Design: Applies architectural decisions and tactics to satisfy non-functional requirements.

---

## Architectural Style for Software

- Architectural style is a **named collection of architectural decisions** that are applicable in a given development context.

- Interpretation

  - Express fundamental structural **organization schema** for software systems.
  - Provide a set of **predefined element types** and specify their **responsibilities** by including rules and guidelines.

### Meta Elements of Architecture Styles

- Overview
- Situation
- Structure
- C&V(Commonality & Variability)
- Collaboration(runtime execution behavior)
- Consequence(pros & cons)
- Implementation(guidelines)

### Classification

- Architecture styles for **data flow systems**

  - **Batch Sequential** Architecture Style
  - **Pipe and Filter** Architecture Style

- Architecture styles for **data centered systems**

  - **Shared repository** Architecture Style
  - Active Repository Architecture Style
  - Blackboard Architecture Style

- Architecture styles for **layered systems**

  - **Layered Architecture** Style
  - **MVC(Model View Controller)** Architecture Style
  - PAC(Presentation Abstraction Control) Architecture Style

- Architecture styles for **tiered systems**

  - **N-Tier** Architecture Style
  - **Client-Server** Architecture Style
  - **Peer-to-Peer** Architecture Style

- Architecture styles for **load-balancing systems**

  - **Broker** Architecture Style
  - **Dispatcher** Architecture Style
  - **Master-Slave** Architecture Style
  - **Edge-based** Architecture Style

- Architecture styles for **service-based systems**

  - **SOA(Service Oriented Architecture)** Style
  - **MSA(Microservice Architecture)** Style

- Architecture styles for **event-based systems**

  - **Publish-Subscribe** Architecture Style
  - **Event-driven** Architecture Style
  - **Sensor Controller Actuator** Architecture Style

- Architecture styles for **adaptive systems**

  - Microkernel Architecture Style
  - Blackboard Architecture Style

- Other architecture styles

  - Variations of MVC Architecture Style
  - Reflection Architecture Style

---
