# Terraform Introduction

- Terraform is an open source infrastructure as code tool originally started by HashiCorp and contributed to by the open source community.

## IaC(Infrastructure as Code)

- Codify infrastructure
- Executable documentation
- Repeatable infrastructure builds
- Version Control Infrastructure Templates
- Self Service On-demand Infrastructure
- Manage and maintain infrastructure configuration drift
- Integrate with CI/CD systems
- SysOps and DevOps enabler.

---

## Terraform Introduction

- Open source infrastructure provisioning tool
- Terraform CLI: Single binary installed locally
- Infrastructure codified into Terraform templates(`*.tf`)
- Provisioning workflow
  - `terraform validate`
  - `terraform plan`
  - `terraform apply`
  - `terraform destroy`

---

## Terraform workflow + integration + extensibility

- Infrastructure engineer(you) write Terraform IaC templates(`*.tf`) and/or modules.
- Public Module Registry: Where community builds and publishes reusable terraform modules that can be imported and used.
- Providers: Used to perform infrastructure **provisioning**
- Terraform CLI: Used to **plan** and **apply** your Terraform IaC templates.
  - Plan: Estimate changes to be applied to your infrastructure
  - Apply: Terraform orchestrates the infrastructure API calls required to implement the changes.

---

## Terraform Root Module

- Root Module: Simply a directory on the local filesystem containing Terraform and configurations.
- Terraform files by convention have the file extension `*.tf` and `.tfvars`
- Root module typically contains the following 3 terraform files:

  - `main.tf`
  - `variables.tf`
  - `outputs.tf`

- Root module can also contain terraform state files such as:

  - `terraform.tfstate`
  - `terraform.tfstate.backup`

- **The initial arrangement above can be modified due to complexity of the infrastructure.**

- Terraform configuration within the Root Module could also be refactored by storing parts of it across and  
  within additional subdirectories. Such subdirectories within the Root Module become nested modules.

---

## Terraform Workspaces

- Workspaces are managed using the command `terraform workspace`

- Terraform uses the concept of **Workspaces** to manage and separate multiple but different infrastructure environments  
  using the same state of Terraform configuration files. This is particularly useful when you want to provision and  
  mirror infrastructure for dev, test or prod environments. With Workspaces, we can establish a Workspace peer  
  environment and then provision infrastructure specifically for that environment using the same Terraform configuration  
  files. And I technical level, Workspaces isolate and manage multiple versions of Terraform state.

- Workspaces are managed using the `terraform workspace` command.  
  You can create additional Workspaces with its `new` subcommand and switch between Workspaces using the `select`  
  subcommand. If you select a new Workspace, there is no state until you apply the configuration.  
  Any resources created in other Workspaces still exist. As and when required, you can simply swap between Workspaces  
  to manage resources assigned and provisioned within that Workspace.

- Workspaces isolate and manage multiple copies of Terraform state files:
  - `terraform.tfstate`
  - `terraform.tfstate.backup`

---

## Terraform - The Main file

- Naming convention: `main.tf`
- Located in the project root workspace.
- Contains your core Terraform code
  - Resources
  - Provider
  - Data sources
- Complex infrastructure requirements may be split across multiple `*.tf` files.
- Modularized templates will each have their own `main.tf` file.

- The `main.tf` file contains your core Terraform configuration, mostly resources that you had declaring, which when  
  working with the AWS provider, at provisioning time, will get converted into actual AWS Cloud hosted infrastructure  
  resources, such as EC2 instances.

- Over time, larger and more complex infrastructure setups might require you to go back and refactor and split up  
  the contents of the `main.tf` file across multiple `.tf` files.

---

## Terraform - The Variables file

- Naming convention: `variables.tf`
- Located alongside `main.tf`.
- Variables are referenced from within `main.tf`
- Variable can be typed and have default values, and can be overridden.

- `variables.tf` is another file that again, will often be edited into the Root Module.  
  The `variables.tf` file contains all possible variables that are then referenced and used within the `main.tf`  
  and other `*.tf` files within the Root Module. When performing a Terraform plan or Terraform apply, the values  
  assigned to each variable will be injected into any place the referenced variable name is used.  
  Variables can be both typed and have default values.(optional)

---

## Terraform - The Outputs file

- Naming convention: `outputs.tf`
- Located alongside `main.tf`.
- Used to explicitly export values back out at the end of a `terraform apply` execution.
- Outputs can be referenced within any parent Terraform template.
- Often used when creating modules
  - Allows module values to be used within parent template.
- Module declared outputs using: `module.<MODULE NAME>.<OUTPUT NAME>`

- Outputs file is where you configure any messages or data that you want to render out to the end user
  within the terminal at the end of an execution of the `terraform apply` command.

- When using end and beading modules in a parent Terraform template, module outputs can be referenced wihtin  
  the parent Terraform template by using the `module.<MODULE NAME>.<OUTPUT NAME>` notation.

---

## Terraform State

- Terraform is STATEFUL.
- Keeps track of all infrastructure provisioned beyond day 0.
- Manages full lifecycle of your infrastructure.
- Manages infrastructure configuration drift.
- State can be refreshed using `terraform refresh`
- Terraform state is tracked and recorded within the files:

  - `terraform.tfstate`
  - `terraform.tfstate.backup`

- Having performed a `terraform apply`, Terraform will capture and record the infrastructure state in two files,  
  `terraform.tfstate` and `terraform.tfstate.backup` located in your working directory when working with local state.

- The state is written in JSON format, meaning you can parse these files if required.

- These files represent Terraform's source of record, recording the last known state.  
  The great thing about having Terraform track and maintain the last name at state of your infrastructure is that  
  it enables you to detect any drift or divergence.

### Terraform State - Remote State

- Terraform will by default store state on the local file system, but you can update this configuration to store  
  the state remotely, such as S3, DynamoDB and more. When using a local file system for state, this can become  
  problematic when working in teams since the state file is a frequent source of merge conflicts.  
  When this occurs, consider using remote state instead.

- Using remote state is also considered more secure since the data can be encrypted at rest, and Terraform only  
  ever stores remote state and memory, never on disk. Requests formal state are also encrypted during transit  
  using TLS. Security is important because configurations can store secrets and sensitive information.  
  You can also access remote state using data sources, which allows different projects to access a project  
  state in a read only version.

### Terraform State - Locking

- Regardless of what you have at backend, you end up using file configuring Terraform state.  
  If it supports locking, Terraform will lock the state while an operation that could potentially write  
  state changes, in order to prevent state corruption.

---

## ETC.

- Terrafom provides a public registry located at [registry.terraform.io](https://registry.terraform.io/), which contains  
  a bunch of providers and modules.

- It is providers which are used to integrate against an infrastructure providers API.

---
