# Terraform CLI AWS Authentication

- There are basically 3 different approaches to configure your AWS account credentials to allow Terraform to connect  
  and authenticate successfully.

## 1. Static

- Static approach: Wires the credentials directly into the Terraform template file.

```tf
terraform {
	required_providers {
		aws = {
			source = "hashicorp/aws"
			version = "-> 3.55.0"
		}
	}
}

provider "aws" {
	region = "ap-northeast-2"
	access_key = "AKIAASDFSFASFSDFASDFA"
	secret_key = "9fd9f8sdf-34wfd8ads/4"
}
```

- Although this approach is probably the quickest and easiest approach, it should be done so with care since it is  
  considered a bad practice, if you were to version control this file containing credentials.

---

## 2. Environment Variables

- The Terraform CLI executable is designed to scan and detect the prescence of environment variables.  
  If detected, they will be used.

- This approach is clearly better than the static approach, from the perspective of version control.  
  With this approach, the `main.tf` file can now safely be committed into version control since the AWS credentials  
  have been extracted out and away from it.

```sh
export AWS_REGION=ap-northeast-2
export AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=AKIAASDFSFASFSDFASDFA
export AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=9fd9f8sdf-34wfd8ads/4

terraform refresh
```

---

## 3. Shared Credentials File

- AWS account credentials are stored in a known credential file on the filesystem.

```tf
terraform {
	required_providers {
		aws = {
			source = "hashicorp/aws"
			version = "-> 3.55.0"
		}
	}
}

provider "aws" {
	region = "ap-northeast-2"
	shared_credentials_file = "~/.aws/credentials"
}
```

> Note: If all three types of credentials are used, then the 3.X version of the AWS provider preferences static  
> credentials first, followed by environment variables and then, lastly, shared credentials.

---

- 아래처럼 하면 AWS CLI의 credential이 저장된 shared credentials file을 읽어온다.

```tf
provider "aws" {
	profile = "default"
	region = "ap-northeast-2"
}
```

---
