# Terraform CLI Commands

## `terraform init`

- A mandatory command required to initialize your Terraform workspace in the current directory.

- 기본적으로 `.terraform` directory가 없는 `main.tf`, `variables.tf`, 그리고 `outputs.tf` 파일이 있는 상태에서 이 명령어를  
  수행해 workspace를 초기화한다.

- The initialization process of `terraform init` will do a number of things for us.  
  Firstly, Terraform reads our configuration files in the working directory to determine which plugins are necessary,  
  searches for the installed plugins in several known locations, and then downloads the correct one.  
  It will also create a log file to log down the version of the plugins that we have initialized our working directory  
  with. And finally, it will also pull down any external modules as used and referenced within our remaining Terraform  
  templates.

- After `terraform init` completes, we would now see the updates made within it.

```
<Working Directory>

├── .terraform
├── .terraform.lock.hcl
├── main.tf
├── variables.tf
├── outputs.tf
```

- `.terraform` director: Holds a copy of the configured provider and any referenced external modules.
- `.terraform.lock.hcl`: Used to lock down the version of the plubins that we have initialized our working directory with.

---

## `terraform validate`

- The `terraform validate` command validates all of your local Terraform configuration, making sure that it is  
  syntactically correct, and more. It is often used immediately after any save operation on the configuration.

---

## `terraform plan`

- The `terraform plan` command is a dry-run command, which is typically run just before the `apply` command.  
  When executing this command, Terraform is just telling us what it would do if we perform the `apply` command.  
  Running this command acts as a safety check. Sometimes our assumptions of what an `apply` would do might be  
  slightly or considerably wrong. The `plan` command will highlight exactly what would happend and provides us  
  an execution plan that we can do when we're doing the real thing.

- Whenever you run a `plan` or `apply`, Terraform reconciles 3 different data sources:

  - What you wrote in your Terraform template.
  - The current Terraform state file.
  - What infrastructure actually exists within the infrastructure provider.

- Since Terraform is convergent, it will play in the _fewest_ required actions to bring the infrastructure to the  
  desired configuration. Terraform alo considers dependencies to determine the order that changes must be applied in.  
  The `plan` stage is relatively inexpensive compared to actually applying changes. So you can often use the `plan`  
  command while developing your configuration to see what changes would need to take place.

---

## `terraform apply`

- The `terraform apply` command reruns the plan or execution plan, and assuming you approved it, will then provision  
  the changes within the provider as per the plan. Now if anything goes wrong, **Terraform will NOT attempt to**  
  **automatically rollback the infrastructure** to the state it was in before running `apply`.  
  This is because the `apply` adheres to the `plan`. It won't delete your resources if the `plan` doesn't call for it.

- To address the need for a rollback position, you can use a previous version of your configuration to rollback to.  
  Alternatively, you can use the `destroy` or `taint` command to target components that need to be deleted or  
  recreated respectively. By default, the `apply` command will always prompt you first for confirmation before
  applying the `plan` changes.

- Auto confirmation can be set by attaching the `-auto-approve` parameter. This is useful as a workflow optimization  
  when doing frequent small incremental changes, perhaps within ADF test environment. Obviously, you have to take  
  care when considering doing this in production.

- When the `apply` command completes, it will report back the applied changes of those added, changes, and deleted.  
  It will also render out any outputs that you have coded into your Terraform templates.

---

## `terraform destroy`

- This command is used to tear down all Terraform managed infrastructure that you have codified.  
  The `terraform destroy` command is clearly a destructive command, so care must be taken using it, particulary so in  
  production environments.

- When it comes to production environments, authorizing destructive operations via Terraform within your AWS account  
  can be, and should be controlled by an appropriately designed IAM policy. This policy would then be attached to an  
  IAM user whose credentials are securely managed and available to only select a few.

- When the `terraform destroy` command runs, it will again `plan` for and report out the required deletion operations  
  to remove all Terraform managed resources within your AWS account.

- By default, the `destroy` command will always prompt you first for confirmation before applying the deletions.  
  Auto confirmation can again be set by attaching the `-auto-approve` parameter, but this should be only done if you're  
  a 100% certain of what the end result is, more so than ever for production environments.

- Similar to the `plan` and `apply` commands, the `destroy` command once executed and completed will report on the final  
  number of resources that have been destroyed.

---
