# DAX - DynamoDB Accelerator

## Why consider DAX?

- Data in DynamoDB is automatically replicated to different AZs, and that replication usually happens quickly,  
  in milliseconds. But sometimes it can take longer. This is known as **Eventual Consistency.**

- Because of eventual consistency model, there are certain kinds of queries and table scans that may return  
  older versions of data before the most recent copy.

- You might have a requirement where you need microsecond response times in read-heavy workloads,  
  and this is where DAX comes in to play.

- By combining DynamoDB with DAX, you end up with a NoSQL database solution offering extreme performance.

## DynamoDB Accelerator(DAX)

- DAX is an in-memory cache delivering a significant performance enhancement, up to 10 times as fast as the default  
  DynamoDB settings, allowing response times to decrease from milliseconds to microseconds.

- It is a fully managed feature offered by AWS and as a result is also highly available.

- DAX is also highly scalable, making it capable of handling millions of request per second without any requirement  
  for you to modify any logic to your applications or solutions.

> This is possible because DAX is fully compliant with all DynamoDB API calls,

- DAX deployment can start with a multi-node cluster, containing a minimum of 3 nodes,  
  which you can quickly and easily modify and expand, reaching a maximum of 10 nodes,  
  with 1 primary and 9 read replicas.

- It can also let you to reduce your provisioned read capacity within DynamoDB.

> This is because of the fact that data is cached by DAX and so reduces the impact and amount of read requests  
> on your DB tables, instead these will be served by DAX from the in-memory cache.

- Reducing the provisioned requirements on your DynamoDB will also reduce your overall costs.

### Security Perspective

- DAX also support encryption at rest, which ensures that any cached data is encrypted using the 256-bit  
  Advanced Encryption Standard algorithm with the integration of the KMS to manage encryption keys.

### DAX Cluster

- DAX is a seperate entity to DynamoDB and so architecturally it sits outside of DynamoDB and is placed within  
  your VPC, where as DynamoDB sits outside of your VPC and is accessed via an endpoint.

- DAX will deploy a node in each of the subnets of the subnet group, with one of those nodes being the primary  
  and the remaining nodes will act as read replicas.

- To alloyw your EC2 instances to interact with DAX, you need to install a **DAX Client** on those instances.  
  DAX Client then intercepts with directs all DynamoDB api calls made from your client to your new DAX Cluster  
  Endpoint, where the incoming request is then load balanced and distributed across all the nodes in the cluster.

- If a request received by DAX from your client is a read request, such as a **GetItem, BatchGetItem, Query or**  
  **Scan**, then the DAX Cluster will try and process the request if it has the data cached.

  - If DAX does not have the requests in its cache(cache miss), then the request will be sent to DynamoDB for  
    the results to be returned to the client.

  - With regards to any **write requests** made by the client, the data is first written to DynamoDB before it  
    is written to the cache of the DAX Cluster.

- DAX does not process any requests relating to table operations and management, for example if you wanted to  
  create, update or delete tables. These requests will be passed through directly to DynamoDB.

---
