# Amazon CloudWatch

- Amazon CloudWatch is a global service that has been designed to be your window into the health and operational  
  performance of your applications and infrastructure.

- It's able to collate and present meaningful operational data from your resources allowing you to monitor and  
  review their performance. This gives you the opportunity to take advantage of the insights that CloudWatch presents,  
  which in turn can trigger automated responses or provide you with the opportunity and time to make manual  
  operational changes and decisions to optimize your infrastructure if required.

---

## Key components of CloudWatch

### CloudWatch Dashboards

- You can build and customize a page using different visual widgets displaying metrics and alarms relating to your resources to form a unified view.

- The resources within your customized dashboard can be from multiple different regions.

- Design and configure different dashboards to represent the data that you need to see from a business and  
  operational perspective.

- You can easily share them with other users, even those who may not have access to your AWS account.  
  This allows you to share the findings gathered by CloudWatch with those who may find the results interesting  
  and beneficial to their day-to-day operational role, but don’t necessarily require the need to access your AWS account.

### CloudWatch Metrics and Anomaly Detection

- Metrics enable you to monitor a specific element of an application or resource over a period of time while  
  tracking these data points.

- Different services offer different metrics.

- By default everyone has access to a free set of metrics, and for EC2, these are collected over a time period of  
  5 minutes. For a small fee, you can enable detailed monitoring which will allow you to gain a deeper insight by  
  collating data across the metrics every minute.

- You can also create your own custom metrics for you applications.

  - Custom metrics are regional.

- Anomaly Detection allows CloudWatch to implement machine learning algorithms against your metric data to help  
  detect any activity that sits outside of the normal baseline parameters that are generally expected.

### CloudWatch Alarms

- CloudWatch Alarms tightly integrate with metrics and allow you to implement automatic actions based on specific  
  thresholds that you can configure relating to each metric.

### Three states of Alarms

- OK: The metric is within the defined configured threshold.
- Alarm: The metric has exceeded the thresholds set.
- Insufficient Data: The alarm has just started, the metric is not available, or not enough data is available  
  for the metric to determine the alarm state.

### CloudWatch EventBridge

- A feature that has evolved from an existing feature called _Amazon Events._

- CloudWatch EventBridge provides a means of connecting your own applications to a variety of different targets,  
  typically AWS services, to allow you to implement a level of real-time monitoring, allowing you to respond to  
  events that occur in your application as they happen.

- An **event** is anything that causes a change to your environment or application.

- The big benefit of using CloudWatch EventBridge is that it offers you the opportunity to implement a level of  
  event driven architecture in a real-time decoupled environment.

#### Rules

- A **rule** acts as a filter for incoming streams of event traffic and then routes these events to the appropriate  
  target defined within the rule.

- The rule itself can route traffic to multiple targets, however the target must be in the same region.

#### Targets

- **Targets** are where the events are sent by the rules, such as:

  - AWS Lambda
  - SQS
  - Kinesis
  - SNS

- All events received by the target are in a JSON format.

#### Event Buses

- An **Event Bus** is the component that actually receives the Event from your applications and your rules are  
  associated with a specific event bus.

- CloudWatch EventBridge uses a default event bus that is used to receive events from AWS services.

### CloudWatch Logs

- CloudWatch Logs gives you a centralized location to house all of your logs from different AWS services that provide  
  logs as an output, such as CloudTrail, EC2, VPC Flow Logs, etc, in addition to your own applications.

- When log data is fed into Cloudwatch Logs, you can utilize CloudWatch Log Insights to monitor the logstream  
  in real time and configure filters to search for specific entries and actions that you need to be alerted on  
  or respond to. This allows CloudWatch Logs to act as a central repository for real-time monitoring of log data.

#### Unified CloudWatch Agent

- Unified CloudWatch Agent can collect logs and additional metric data from EC2 instances as well from  
  on-premise services running either a Linux or Windows operating system.

- This metric data is an addition to the default EC2 metrics that CloudWatch automatically configures for you.

### CloudWatch Insights

- **Insights** provide the ability to get more information from the data that CloudWatch is collecting.

#### Log Insights

- This is a feature that can analyze your logs that are captured by CloudWatch Logs at scale in seconds using  
  interactive queries delivering visualizations.

- You can use Log Insights to filter your log data to retrieve specific data allowing you to gather insights  
  that you are interested in.

#### Container Insights

- Container Insights allow you to collate and group different metric data from different container services and  
  applications within AWS.

- Container Insights also allows you to capture and monitor diagnostic data giving you additional insights into  
  how to resolve issues that arise within your container architecture.

- This monitoring and insight data can be analyzed at the cluster, node, pod and task level, making it a valuable  
  tool to help you understand your container applications and services.

#### Lambda Insights

- This feature provides you the opportunity to gain a deeper understanding of your applications using AWS Lambda.

- It gathers and aggregates system and diagnostic metrics related to AWS Lambda to help you monitor and troubleshoot  
  your serverless applications.

> To enable it, you need to enable the feature per Lambda function that you create within Monitoring Tools sections  
> of your function.

---
