# AWS Config

## What is AWS Config?

- AWS Config is a service designed to record and capture resource changes within your environment,  
  allowing you to perform a number of actions against the data that helps you manage your resources.

### What can AWS Config do?

- Act as resource inventory
- Store configuration history
- Capture resource changes
- Provide a snapshot of configurations
- Notifications about changes
- Provide AWS CloudTrail integration
- Security analysis
- Use Rules to check compliancy
- Identify relationships

### AWS Config & Regions

- AWS Config is region specific, meaning that if you have resources in multiple regions, then you will have to  
  configure AWS Config for each region you want to record resource changes for.

---

## Key Components of AWS Config

- There are lots of key components of AWS Config.

### AWS Resources

- AWS Config records changes to supported AWS resources within a specific region.

### Configuration Items(CIs)

- Comprised of a JSON file that holds the configuration information, relationship information, and other metadata  
  as a point in time snapshot view of a supported resource.
- All the information that AWS Config can record for resource, is captured within the CI.
- A CI is created every time a supported resource has a change made to its configuration in any way.

- CIs are used to look up all the changes that have been made to a resource.

  - Configuration Streams: CIs are sent to an SNS topic to enable analysis of the data.
  - Configuration Snapshots: CIs are used to create a point in time snapshot of all supported resources.

### Configuration Stream

- When new CIs are created, they are sent to a configuration stream, and this stream is in the form of an SNS topic.
- This stream is also used by AWS Config to send information when other events occur:
  - When Configuration History files are delivered.
  - When Configuration Snapshots are started.
  - When the state of compliance changes for a resource.
  - When evaluations begin.
  - When AWS Config fails to deliver notifications.

### Configuration History

- Configuration History uses CIs to collate and produce a history of changes to a particular resource.

### Configuration Snapshot

- Configuration Snapshot takes a snapshot of all supported resources configured for that region.

### Configuration Recorder

- Component which is responsible for recording all the changes and generating the CIs.

### Config Rules

- AWS Config Rules are a great way to help you enforce specific compliance controls.

  - Each rule is essentially a Lambda function.

- Each time a change is made to one of your supportive resources, AWS Config will check the compliance against  
  any config rules that you have in place. If there was a violation against these rules, then AWS Config will send  
  a message to the configuration stream by SNS, and the resource will be marked as noncompliant.

- Rules can be custom defined or selected from a predefined list of AWS managed rules that AWS has created on your behalf.

### Resource Relationship

- AWS Config identifies relationships between resources.

### SNS Topic

- SNS topic is used as a configuration stream for notifications of various events triggered by AWS Config.

### S3 Bucket

- S3 bucket that was selected at the time of configuration, is used to store all that configuration history  
  files that are generated for each resource type, which happens every six hours.

- Also, any Configuration Snapshots taken are stored in this S3 bucket.

### AWS Config Permissions

- When setting up AWS Config, you're required to select an IAM role.  
  This role is required to allow AWS Config to obtain encrypt permissions to carry out and perform a number of functions.

---

## Summary

- (1) Configure the elements for the Configuration Recorder.
- (2) AWS Config discovers all supported resources.
- (3) For any change on a resource, a CI will be created and a notification is sent.
- (4) AWS Config checks current Config Rules to evaluate if the change is noncompliant.

- If a Configuration Snapshot is taken, AWS Config will create a snapshot and deliver it to the specified S3 bucket.
- Every 6 hours, a Configuration History file will be created and delivered to the specified S3 bucket.
