# AWS Logging

## CloudWatch Logging Agent

- CloudWatch is used to collate and collect metrics on resources, monitor their performance and response to alerts.
- CloudWatch allows you to collect logs of your applications and a number of different AWS services.
- CloudWatch provides the ability to monitor log streams in real time and set up metric filters to search  
  for specific events.

### Unified CloudWatch Agent

- Unified CloudWatch Agent allows the collection of logs from EC2 instances as well from on-premise servers.

### CloudWatch Agent Installation

- (1) Create a role and attach it to the instance with permissions to collect data from the instances in addition  
  to interacting with SSM.
- (2) Download nad install the agent onto the EC2 instance.
- (3) Configure and start the CloudWatch agent.

#### Creating Roles

- Two roles are required:

  - (1) Used to install the agent and also send the additional metrics gathereed to CloudWatch.
  - (2) Used to communicate with the Parameter Store within SSM, to store a configuration information file of  
    the agent.

#### Configuring the agent

- On your first instance, you need to create the CloudWatch Agent Configuration File.

  - This file stores configuration parameters that specify which metrics and logs to capture on the instance.
  - It can be created manually or by using a wizard.
  - It is in JSON format.

- Configuration file을 SSM에 저장시켜 하나의 configuration file을 여러 개의 EC2 instance가 공유할 수 있다.

---

## CloudTrail Logging

### AWS CloudTrail

- CloudTrail records and tracks all AWS API request made.
- API requests are:

  - Programmatic requests initiated from a user using an SDK.
  - Requests from the AWS CLI.
  - Requests from within the AWS Management Console.
  - Requests made by another AWS service.

- CloudTrail capture the API request as an _'event'_ and records this event within a log file which is then  
  stored on S3. It also records other identifying metadata:
  - The identity of the caller.
  - The timestamp.
  - The source IP address.

### Log file format

- Log files are written in a JSON format.
  - When an API is captured, it is associated with an event and written to a log.
  - New logs are created every 5 minutes.
  - Logs are delivered to S3 buckets 15 minutes after the API was called.

### Log file structure

- Below are some of key attributes of an event in the log file:
  - eventName: The name of the API that was called.
  - eventSource: The service to which the API call was made against.
  - eventTime: The time that the call was made.
  - sourceIPAddress: The source IP address of the requester who made the API call.
  - userAgent: The agent method that the request was made through.
  - userIdentity: A larger set of attributes that provides information on the identity that made the API request.

### Aggregating logs from multiple AWS accounts.

- To have logs from all your accounts delivered to just one S3 bucket:

  - (1) Create a trail in the AWS Account that you want all log files to be delivered to.
  - (2) Apply permissions to the destination S3 bucket allowing cross-account access for CloudTrail.
  - (3) Create a new trail in your other AWS account and select to use an existing S3 bucket.

#### Aggregating permissions

- How to allow users to only access CloudTrail logs that originated from _their_ AWS account?

  - (1) In the master account, IAM Roles would need to be created for each of the other AWS accounts  
    requiring read access.
  - (2) A policy would need to be assigned to those Roles allowing access to the relevant AWS accounts logs ONLY.
  - (3) Users within the requesting AWS accounts would need to be able to _'Assume'_ this Role to gain read access  
    for their CloudTrail logs.

### CloudTrail log file security

- Log file integrity validation allows you to verify that your log files have remained unchanged since  
  CloudTrail delivered them to the S3 bucket.
  - Often used for security and forensic investigations.

---

## Monitoring CloudTrail with CloudWatch

- CloudTrail can send logs to CloudWatch Logs, which allows metrics and thresholds to be configured.  
  It can then utilize SNS notifications for specific events such as:
  - API calls requesting significant changes.
  - Starting, stopping, rebooting and terminating EC2 instances.
  - Changes to security policies within IAM and S3.
  - Failed login attempt to the Management Console.
  - API calls that result in failed authorization.

### Configuring CloudTrail to use CloudWatch

- (1) First create a new Trail.
- (2) Configure the new Trail to use an existing CloudWatch Log Group or create a new one.
  - Allowing CloudTrail to create a new Log Group is recommended as it takes care of all the necessary roles,  
    permissions and policies.

### Configuring Roles and Policies

- Overview of sending CloudTrail logs to CloudWatch
  - (1) A log is sent to your S3 bucket and your chosen CloudWatch Log Group.
  - (2) To deliver these logs, CloudTrail must have the correct permissions.
  - (3) CloudTrail then delivers the logs.

### CloudWatch Log Events

- CloudWatch Log Events have a size limitation of 256KB on the events that they can process.

### Configuring CloudWatch Log Analysis

- You must configure CloudWatch to perform analysis of your CloudTrail events within the log files by adding  
  metric filters.

  - Metric filters allow you to search and count a specific value or term within your events in your log file.
  - You must create a filter pattern which determines what exactly you want CloudWatch to monitor and extract  
    from you files.

---

## CloudFront Access Logs

- When CloudFront access logs are enabled you can record the request from each user requesting access to your  
  website and distribution. As with S3 access logs, these logs are also stored on Amazon S3 for durable and  
  persistent storage. There are no charges for enabling logging itself, however, as the logs are stored in S3  
  you will be stored for the storage used by S3.

- The logging process takes place at the edge location and on a per-distribution basis, meaning that there will  
  not be data written to a log that belongs to more than one distribution. For example, distribution a, b, c, will  
  be saved in a different log to that of distribution d, e, f. When multiple edge locations are used for the same  
  distribution, a single log file is generated for that distribution and all edge locations write to the single file.

- The log files capture data over a period of time and depending on the amount of requests that are received by  
  Amazon CloudFront for that distribution will depend on the amount of log fils that are generated.  
  It's important to know that **these log files are not created or written to on S3.** S3 is simply where they are  
  delivered to once the log file is full. Amazon CloudFront retains these logs until they are ready to be delivered  
  to S3. Again, depending on the size of these log files this delivery can take between one and 24 hours.

### Cookie Logging

- If you enable Cookie Logging within your distribution, then CloudFront will include all cookie information  
  with your CloudFront access data.

- This is only recommended if your origin of your distribution points to anythong other than S3, such as an EC2 instance.

---

## VPC Flow Logs

- Within your VPC, you could potentially have hunderds or even thousands of resources all communicating together.

- VPC Flow Logs allows you to capture IP traffic information that flows between your network interfaces of your  
  resources within your VPC.

- This data is useful when:
  - Resolve incidents with network communication and traffic flow.

### VPC Flow Logs Destination

- The log data generated by VPC Flow Logs are sent to CloudWatch Logs or can be directly delivered to S3.

### Limitations

- For VPC peered connections, you can only see flow logs of peered VPCs wihtin the same AWS account.
- You are not able to retrieve information from resources within the EC2-Classic environment.
- Once a VPC Flow Log has been created, it cannot be changed.
- The following traffic is not captured by the logs:
  - DHCP traffics within the VPC
  - Traffic from instances destined for Amazon DNS Servers
  - Traffic destined to the IP address for the VPC default router
  - Traffic to and from the following:
    - `169.254.169.254`: Instance metadata
    - `169.254.169.123`: Time sync service
  - Traffic relating to an Amazon Windows activation license from a Windows instance.
  - Traffic between a NLB Network Interface and an ENI.

### Supported resources

- You can set up and create a Flow Log against these resources:
  - A Network Interface on one of your instances
  - A subnet within your VPC
  - Your VPC itself

### Publishing data to CloudWatch

- Every Network Interface that publishes data to the CloudWatch Log Group uses a different log stream.
- Within each stream, there is the flow log event data that shows the content of the log entries.
- Each of these logs captures data during a windows of approximately 10~15 minutes.

---
